**ProBoost: A Pipeline for Protein Quality Assessment using Structure-Sequence Profiles and XGBoost**

Proteins perform vast array of functionalities in biological milieu. In other words, most biological processes are mediated through protein interactions. Since protein structures define their roles and functions, high-resolution structure of proteins is essential in realizing those functions. On the other hand, the complex and intricate nature of protein structure made it difficult to resolve a high-resolution model either experimentally i.e. NMR spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography, or computationally i.e. in protein structure prediction tools. Accordingly, model quality assessment (MAQ) has become an active research field in structural bioinformatics. 

This project comprises two main phases: A) PreProcess, B) Assessment Pipeline.

A. Preprocess

in this phase a non-redundant sub-set of CATH is used. Preprocess comprises four steps as follow:
1) Building Protein Families
proteins with structural similarity more than 0.5 are grouped into one protein family. 

2) Building Sequence-Structure Profiles
six features including solvent accessibility, secondary structure, structural segment, backbone free energy, amino acid bunching, amino acid frequency are used to build six profiles for each protein family. Two of features are related to protein sequence and 4 others are structural features.

3) Building Test and Train datasets
In this step each protein is scored based on its corresponding protein family using Sequence-Structure profiles. In fact, a dataset is constructed which each record consist of a target and candid protein (with same length) , 3 structure and two sequence features of the target protein, the TM-Score between target and candid protein and structural segment score between target and candid protein.

4) Learning (Classification)
In the first step, in order to have an equal distribution for all TM-Score in 0.05 ranges, data were over-sampled.
In the second step, XGBoost classifier is used to learn the dataset.

B. Assessment Pipeline consist of three phases:

1) Building Sequence-Structure Profiles
in this step, after locating the input structure in a protein family all six profiles are constructed.

2) Building Test and Train datasets
based on constructed profiles a vector of scores are prepared for the input structure.
3) Assess (Predict) Protein Structure Quality
in this step, the XGBoost classifier is used to predict the quality score of the input structure.

This study is conducted using C++, Python and Power Query.
We are now evaluating ProBoost using CASP13.
